01 - Preview.txt
Today we'll talk about one of the most ubiquitous problems in AI called classification. Classification is mapping sets of percepts in the world into equals classes, so that we can take actions in the world in an efficient manner. We could learn this concept through incremental concept learning. We'll talk about the nature of these equivalence classes and how they can be organized into a hierarchy of concepts. We'll talk about different kinds of concepts, like axiomatic concepts and prototypical concepts. Given a classification hierarchy, we'll talk about multiple processes for doing the classification, including both bottom-up and top-down processes. 


02 - Exercise Concept Learning Revisited.txt
In the previous lesson, we examined some techniques for learning about concepts from examples. But those were simple concepts that we learned from a few examples. Concepts like arg or foo, which was our imaginary, hypothetical concept. The real world concepts can be much more complicated than that. Consid, as an example, consider the eight animals shown here. Each picture shows a very cute animal here. How many of these do you think are birds? Which ones are birds? 


03 - Exercise Concept Learning Revisited.txt
David what did you think and tell us also why you chose it flies, and we often think of flying as a bird behavior, but it have feathers the way birds do and bats actually give birth to live young. The platypus shown here is it doesn't have feathers. So I would say that these ostriches don't actually do, but they're still birds because they of birds and which did not belong to it? Notice also that he used some are the basic conditions that something must satisfy in order to 


04 - Classifying Birds.txt
So here are four of the animals that David classified as birds. Let us look at the kind of features that he examined in order to classify whether or not an animal was a bird. He may have used several features, some of which he articulated, others that he may not have articulated. So whether a animal has wings? Whether it has feathers? Whether it has a beak? And so on and so forth. One could add more features here if one wished to do so. We do classification all the time. AI agents need to do classification all the time also. Why? Why is classification so ubiquitous? 


05 - The Challenge of Classification.txt
To see why classification is so powerful and so ubiquitous, and also to understand what exactly is classification, let us go to our overall cognitive architecture for an intelligent agent. This is a diagram that we have come across many, many times. Let us imagine this particular Cognitive System is dealing with a set of percepts. These percepts are in the world. So as an example this Cognitive System may see some object, some animal when the Cognitive System goes to the zoo. This might be an AI agent, or perhaps your friend who goes to the zoo. And look at some animals and there are a large number of percepts in that environment. Has wings, Has feathers, talons, beak and so on. And for the simplicity let's assume that each of the percepts is binary, it's either true or false. So either the animal has wings or doesn't have wings. And depending upon the percepts and the combinations of this percepts one might take different kind of actions. So if it's a friendly animal one might go and pet it, if it's a unfriendly or dangerous animal one might run away from it. So, all kind of actions are possible. Imagine that there are some M actions that are possible. Send, we can again imagine that there is a binary choice here. So, the total number of combinations of actions, as to the power m. So as an example. If I have a, if I see a dangerous animal in a zoo, then I might both scream and run away. If I see a friendly animal, I may approach the animal and make cooing noise to the animal. So, a number of actions and combinations of actions are possible. And if n is the number of percepts then I have to the power n. Combinations of percepts possible. So how is the challenge that the cognitive agent faces? The challenges, that the number of percepts and the number of actions multiplied by the number of combinations of percepts and the number of combinations of actions is very, very large. And we have to map these percepts, combinations of percepts, actions, combinations of actions. This is a very complex mapping. So imagine that only percepts. Image at environment, so I'm looking at an animal and let's take percepts that I'm paying attention to. Then two to the power , the number of combination of percepts is , and doing it two to the power of here because I'm assuming each percept has a binary value. If I had percepts, I was not looking at one animal, but I was looking at a scene of animals. Then I may have percepts, in which case I have a much larger number of combinations. And if I had something like percepts, which is not very large number. The number of combinations is, well it's a very large number. more than the combinations of atoms in the universe. Now you and I, and AI agents more generally. Are constantly faced with a complex environment where there are a large number of percepts, and a large number of combinations that are possible. So let's go back to something earlier that we had considered in the class. We defined earlier that, one way of talking what intelligent agent is to think in terms of how can an intelligent agent map percepts into actions. Intelligence is, in part, a lot part perhaps, according to this definition, about action selection. The other aspect of this is. That if the number of perceptions is large and the number of actions is large. Then the mapping between them becomes very large and very complicated quickly. But intelligent agents have only finite resources. How is it then that we can select the right action. Or at least most of the time select the right action. Even when the environment is very complex. And do so in near real time. 


06 - Equivalence Classes.txt
Here is one way in which where each of these k concept is an equivalence class with a large on the combinations of percepts, I index my actions on the equivalence are the actions possible. And the actions are now indexed, of signs and symptoms, is much smaller. Another example of this that actually gone wrong. So, for example in my percepts, I might I might have, but it might map the same underlying concept or something individual percept to some number of actions, I know that if my error is the initialization has not taken place. Now we understand mapping this two to the power n combinations of percepts and use two columns are through the power m actions. Given a percept, I know exactly what it is breaking that large table into a large number of small tables, 


07 - Exercise Equivalence Classes.txt
So the next question becomes, given a set of animals, or in general, a set of objects or elements, and a set of percepts for each of those animals, how can we decide what's a good equivalence class for those animals? Consider, for example, the three animals shown here, eagle, bluebird, and penguin. Let us suppose that we knew that there are six percepts that are important for each one of these animals. Lays eggs, has wings, has talons, and so on. But in order to decide what might be a good equivalence class for these three animals, we first have to decide on what might be the right values for each of these percepts for each animal. So I'm going to ask you to use your background knowledge, to fill in the values of the percepts that applies to each of the animals. 


08 - Exercise Equivalence Classes.txt
David, do you know about they all have wings. Eagles and bluebirds have talons, we might say that eagles and penguins are large whereas on the smaller end of the spectrum. Good David, you know more we learned in the previous lesson to learn some equivalence class, learn some concept definition related to each other 


09 - Concept Hierarchies.txt
So, I just talked about incremental concept learning. So we had a brick and a wedge. They were both subclasses of a block. In general, the organization of different kinds, reptiles, birds, mammals, and so on. And here are birds, which can be of that I expect all of your family with the animals of various kinds, water these are sub-classes and super classes. Now the advantage of this kind of an eagle or a penguin. And you may start, initially, we have to make that processing very, very explicit. Even among humans, imagine for example, what happens when the scientist and so on. So classification of this kind we need to actually key in on and focus in on. So for example, decision whether it's a reptile, bird, or mammal. But once we've established it's a bird, size as a variable that matters. So note that there are several powerful in some ways. If knowledge is power, 


10 - Exercise Concept Hierarchies.txt
Let us return to the exercise that we were trying to do earlier, where we had eagle and bluebird and penguin. And we had features, and we had values for the eagle and the bluebird and the penguin. Well, given these three sets of values for the eagle, bluebird and penguin. And given that bird is a superclass of these three classes. What would be the features that you would put in the bird node in that classification hierarchy? 


11 - Exercise Concept Hierarchies.txt
What do you think, David? So what I did, figure that birds have wings. And none of them have fur, so I'm going to figure that not they are large can vary. The eagle and penguin are large, this idea that we can decide on the features that should go into 


12 - Types of Concepts.txt
We can think of concepts lying on a spectrum. On one extreme end are extremely formal concepts for which we can define logical conditions that are necessary and sufficient for that concept. We'll examine that in more detail in just a minute. On the other end of the spectrum are less formal concepts for which it's hard to define necessary and sufficient conditions. Now here are three points on the spectrum. Axiomatic concepts, prototype concepts, exemplar concepts. There can be other types of concepts as well. We're just going to consider these three concepts because they are the three most common ones. And we'll look at each one of them in turn. In general, humans find it easier to communicate about axiomatic concepts because they are well defined. There is a set of necessary and sufficient conditions that we all agree with. Examples are mathematical concepts. Humans find it harder to communicate about prototype concepts, but most of the time we do quite well. It's even harder to talk about exemplar concepts like, let's say, beauty or freedom. Similarly, it's easier to teach computers axiomatic concepts or program axiomatic concepts into computers. It's much harder to program or teach prototype concepts. And much, much harder to teach a program exemplar type concepts. 


13 - Axiomatic Concepts.txt
So let us look at each one of them. Axiomatic concepts, product concepts, and exemplar concept in more detail. Let's become with axiomatic concept. And axiomatic concept is a concept, it is defined by a formal set of necessary and sufficient conditions. Geometric objects like a circle are good examples. Triangles, squares, rectangles, and so on. So as an example, a circle are all points in a plane that are equidistant from a single point. And the single point is the center of the circle. Now, this is a very formal set of necessary and sufficient conditions. Given any other object, you can see whether or not the particular object is a circle by looking for this particular condition. 


14 - Prototype Concepts.txt
The notion of axiomatic concepts is the classical view in cognitive systems. Here's an alternative view. This is called Prototypical concepts. Prototypical concept is a base concepts defined by some typical properties that can sometimes be overridden. So, an example is a chair. You and I have a notion of a prototypical chair. Our notion of a prototypical chair may have, for example, there is a back, there is four legs and so on. So, here might be your and my notion of a prototypical chair. It has a back, it has a seat, it has four legs and so on. Now I can represent this notion of the prototypical chair in the language of frames. This is something we have come across earlier in the class. A frame has slots and fillers, as you may recall, and we use frames to represent stereotypes. Here we're talking about prototypes, so very closely related. So concept is the a content you can represent. Frame is the form in which we can represent it. So a notion for the prototypical chair might be, it has four legs, it, the material is metal, it has a back, it does not have arms, and it's not cushioned. Note that these are the typical properties of a chair. Of course, some chairs need not necessarily satisfy all of these properties. That is why there are no, no necessary and sufficient conditions here. For example, we may come across a chair. Which is made of wood. While you would still consider it a chair, even if you're not strictly satisfied with this particular definition. Thus, these properties can be overridden in case of specific instances. But we'll still have the basic notion of a prototypical chair so that we can in fact communicate with each other about what a chair is. Despite the fact that we can override these properties we do still have a notion of prototypical chair. So the relationships between concepts and frames actually is quite close. Recall that when we were talking about frames, we were also talking about inheritance and default. The notion of default in frames is closely connected to the notion of typical properties and concepts. So chair has this prototypical notion with some of these typical properties, and we can think of this as having a default values. By default, we assume the number of legs is four, the material is metal and so on. Here is a stool and this stool is a kind of chair which means that it inherits all the values and all the slots that are there in the chair directly except for those that happen to be different from the one in the chair. So then an example here it over writes a notion that the chair necessarily has to have a back. In the case of a stool, the stool does not have a back. 


15 - Exemplar Concepts.txt
Like so many concepts with refinement necessary in sufficient conditions, for typical concepts in typical conditions, what about exemplar concepts? Exemplar concepts don't even have typical conditions, let alone necessary and sufficient conditions. In case of exemplar concepts, I can give you examples. Perhaps I can do some implicit abstraction of some examples, but it's about as far as I can go. Consider the example of beauty for a second. There are four examples of something beautiful. Here's a painting by Van Gogh, here's a beautiful sunset, a beautiful flower, a beautiful dance and so on. While I can give examples of the concept of beauty, it's really hard to come up with the typical condition of a beauty. Exemplar concepts are very hard to, define. And for that reason, they are also very hard to, communicate to each other, or to teach in a art program. Exemplar concepts can be culture specific, sometimes even individual specific. 


16 - Order of Concepts.txt
To summarize then, concepts can be of many different kinds. Fro very formal, concepts, like Axiomatic concepts, to less formal concepts, like Exemplar concepts. Of course, we can, if we want less formal concepts, like exemplar concepts, philosophers often talk about concepts called qualia, Q-U-A-L-I-A. Qualia for the raw sensations that we may get from our sensors. And example of qualia is, bitterness. I'm sure you've come across some bitter fruit, some time or the other. And you can even taste it, inside your mouth right now, if you wanted to. But it's very hard to communicate what a qualia is to anyone else, what. Your notion of a genesis to anyone else. 


17 - Exercise Order of Concepts.txt
Let us do an exercise together. On the left again is a spectrum from very formal to less formal. In the right here are six concepts. Inspirational, reptile, foo. Foo here is the same concept that we came across when we're talking about incremental concept learning. This is the same foo here. Right triangle, holiday, saltiness. Can you rank the six concepts according to the notion of formality that we have studied so far? 


18 - Exercise Order of Concepts.txt
So part of the point of looking at these two different kinds of concepts is that depending on the different kinds of concepts we are dealing with right now, you may come up with a different knowledge representation and a different inference method. Let me explain. Supposing we're dealing with concepts like Foo or Holiday or Inspirational. Then the case-based reasoning method might be a very good method for dealing with things of that kind. We may have experience with specific holidays, but we cannot abstract them out into a concept with prototypical conditions. On the other hand, if we were dealing with concepts like a right triangle or a reptile, for which we can define necessary and sufficient conditions, in that case there are alternative methods available that might be more suitable then case-based reasoning. So instead of thinking in terms of one method that is going to work for all conditions and all concepts, we might want to think in terms of a array of methods, where each method is more or less useful for different kind of conditions or different kind of concepts. David, I am sure you recall mentally who was a Russian chemist who came up with the basic notion of the chemical periodic table. I'm sure all the students in the class know about the chemical periodic table, which organizes all the elements according to certain properties like hydrogen, oxygen, calcium, and so on. Now, Mendeleev came up with this notion of a chemical periodic table, and in some sense what we're trying to do in this course is to build a similar kind of periodic table, except that this is a periodic table of the elements of mind. It's a periodic table of the basic fundamental elements that compose intelligence. Instead of talking about elements and valances and atoms and so on, what we are going to be talking about are methods and representations. So it as if we are discovering the fundamental knowledge for presentations and organizations and reasoning methods that go with it. Case based reasoning was one. Reasoning method that went with certain kinds of concepts that are hard to abstract and into conditions, like typical conditions, are necessarily logical conditions. 


19 - Bottom-Up Search.txt
Let us build on this metaphor of periodic table a little bit further. So earlier we came across another method of dealing with classification, which we call top down or establish define. In that method we had this classification hierarchy which start with a concept, will establish it, then refine it, and refine it further if needed. That particular control of processing is very well suited for one kind of organization of concepts. It's very well suited for one set of situations where we know something is already a vertebrate, we're trying to establish whether it's a bird or a bluebird. And a different kind of classification task. A better control of processing is to go bottom up. Let's look at this a little bit more carefully. Here are a number of leaf nodes. And we know, the agent knows something about the value for each of these leaf nodes. And the task is to make a prediction at the root node. So in this particular case imagine the task of the AA agent is to predict the of the Dow Jones Industrial Average tomorrow. It'll be great to have an AA agent like that. If we had a good AA agent like that, you and I could both become very rich. Now how could this A, agent make a prediction about the Dow Jones Industrial Average tomorrow? Well, one way in which it could do it is it could look at the. Information it has about the GDP the inflation and employment today. but how does it know about the value GDP or the inflation or employment today. Well it can look then at the values of the overtime hours. The consumer sentiment index, new orders index and so on and so forth. Now, the processing is largely, bottom up. We know something about the values or the features that go into this concept. And they're going to this concept, they're going to this concept. You can abstract them and find the value of the GDP. And similarly for this, and then abstract it further. So the control of processing in this particular case, we might call it identify and abstract, identify an abstract. Bottom-up controller processing rather than top-down in the previous case. We have just defined two other elements of our periodic table, of our growing periodic table of intelligence. In this latter element, the bottom-up classification, the conditions of application are different. 


20 - Assignment Classification.txt
How would you apply the principles of classification, to designing an agent that can solve Raven's progressive matrices? In answering this there's a lot of questions to touch on. For example, will you develop the classification scheme yourself, or are you going to have your agent learn it as it encounters new problems. So what would that classification scheme look like? What percepts will the agent use to classify new problems into that classification scheme? Then once it's classified them, how will that classification actually help it solve the problem? What will it be able to do this way that it wouldn't have been able to do otherwise? 


21 - Wrap Up.txt
So today we've talked about classification, which is one of the biggest problems in AI. We started by revisiting incremental concept learning and reminding ourselves how it allowed us to take examples and abstract away a concept. We then looked at the idea of equivalence classes and how we can group sets of percepts into equivalence classes to establish a particular instance of a concept. Within this is the hierarchies of concepts, such as the animal kingdom, where animals can grow kind of into vertebrae, birds and penguins. We then discuss the idea of different types of concepts like axiomatic or exemplar concepts, and how each of them have different definitions and different affordances. Finally, we discuss bottom-up search, so instead of establish and refine, we look at the lower level variables and abstract up from them. Next, we're going to move on to logic, which is a little bit unrelated to this. But if you're interested in classification, you can look ahead to all our different lessons on design, such as diagnosis and configuration. They're going to really heavily leverage our idea of classification. 


22 - The Cognitive Connection.txt
One could say a lot about the connection between classification and cognition. This is because classification is ubiquitous in cognition. You're driving a car on the street, you see a friend driving his car, you look, take a look at the car, and you see a Porsche. Classification. You're on a computer program, the output is faulty. You look at the output, decide on the bug. You name the bug. Classification. You go to a doctor with certain signs and symptoms, the doctor names a disease category, classification. The reason classification is so ubiquitous is because it allows us to select actions. Once the doctor knows what the disease category is, he can suggest a therapy. Once you know what the bug is you can decide on a repair for that bug. If action selection indeed is a very productive characterization of intelligence then we can see why classification is central to cognition. 


23 - Final Quiz.txt
All right. Please right down what you learned in this lesson in this box for us to peruse later. 


24 - Final Quiz.txt
And thank you for doing it. 


