01 - Preview.txt
Today we will talk about diagnosis. Diagnosis is the identification of the fault or faults responsible for a malfunctioning system. The system it could be a car, a computer program, an organism, or the economy. Diagnosis builds on our discussion of classification and configuration. They start by defining diagnosis. They really setup two spaces. A data spaces and a hypothesis space. Data about the malfunctioning system. Hypothesis about the fault that can explain that malfunctioning system. Then, we'll constructing mappings through data space to hypothesis space which amount to diagnosis. We'll discuss two views of diagnosis, diagnosis as classification and diagnosis as abduction. Abduction in this context is a new term to you. We'll discuss it in more detail today. 


02 - Exercise Diagnosing Illness.txt
To illustrate the task of diagnosis, let us begin with an exercise. When we think of diagnosis, most of us think in terms of medical diagnosis. The kind of diagnosis a doctor does. So this particular exercise, is coming from medical diagnosis, actually it's a made-up exercise from medical diagnosis. And here's a set of diseases, fictional diseases, that the doctor knows about, along with the symptoms that each diseases causes. So, Alphaitis, for example, causes elevated A, reduced C and elevated F and so on. Given this set of data, and this set of diseases, what disease or set of diseases do you think the patient suffers from? 


03 - Exercise Diagnosing Illness.txt
That's a good answer, David. Note that David did several things in coming up with his answer. First, he made sure that his answer covers all these signs and symptoms. This is the principle of coverage. We want to make sure that the diagnostic conclusion actually accounts for all the input data. Second, we chose a single hypothesis over a combination of hypothesis, although the combination could have explain this data as well. This is the principle of parsimony. In general, we want a simple hypothesis for explaining the entire data. Third, these hypotheses can have greatest interactions between them, and these interactions can make your diagnostic task quite complicated. Fourth, they would use the term explanation. This is an important aspect for diagnosis. We want a set of hypotheses that could explain the input data. Now this [UNKNOWN] we did it in this simple exercise, because there is one single disease that can, in fact, explain all the input data. What would happen if there was no single hypothesis that could cover the entire input data? Or what would happen if there were multiple hypotheses that could equally well explain the input data? [UNKNOWN] diagnostic task can be quite complicated. 


04 - Defining Diagnosis.txt
We may define the task of we expect some behavior from it. We expect it to do something. However, we may observe that the system what is the fault or the set of faults responsible for with which all of us are familiar. The first figure shows the expected behavior and the observed behavior. When I insert the key into the ignition, I know there is a malfunction. Given this malfunction, inserted, check the carburetor. Suppose I go and a production system to isolate the fault of faults responsible for we expect it to run fast, and we expect it to stay cool. Now, imagine we turn a computer and this a problem with the fan and replace the fan. This happens at the software level too. If I'm writing a program and the output works to the rubber duck so that I might uncover the error by forcing myself the fault, or faults responsible for it. Note also that we alluded to three systems thinking later in the class. Of course we can use the matter of familiar with many reasoning methods that are potentially 


05 - Data Space and Hypothesis Space.txt
We can think of diagnosis as a mapping from a data space, to a hypothesis space, In case of a medical diagnosis, the data may be the greatest kind of signs and symptoms that I may go to a doctor with. Some of the data may be very specific, some of it may be very abstract, an example of a very specific data is that a [UNKNOWN] temperature is degrees fahrenheit. An example of the extraction of the data is that [INAUDIBLE] is running a fever. The hypothesis space consists of all hypothesis that can explain parts of the observed data. A hypothesis in the hypothesis space can explain some part of the data, In case of medicine, this hypothesis may reference to diseases. A doctor may say that my hypothesis is that a shook is suffering from flu, and that explains his high fever. In the domain of car repairs, this hypothesis may refer to specific faults with the car, for example, the carburetor is not working properly. In the domain of computer software, this hypothesis may refer to specific methods not working properly. And this mapping from data space to the hypothesis space can be very complex. The complexity arises partly because of the size of data space, partly because of the size of hypothesis space, partly because the mapping can be M to N. And also, because this hypothesis can interact with each other, If H is present, H may be excluded, If H is present, H is sure to be present and so on. It helps then not to deal with all the raw data, but to deal with abstractions of the data, so the initial data that a patient may go to a doctor with may be very, very specific. The signs and symptoms of their particular specific patient, but the diagnostic process might abstract them from Asok has a fever of degrees farenheit to Asok has a high fever. This abstract data that can be mapped into an abstract hypothesis, Asok has high fever can get mapped into Asok has a bladder infection for example. The abstract hypothesis can now be refined into a suffering from flu or a flu for a particular screen. At the end, we want a hypothesis that is as refined as possible, and that explains all the available data. When we were talking about classification, we talked about two processes of classification, bottom-up process and our top down process. The bottom up process of classification, we started with raw data and then grouped and abstracted, it in case of top down classification we started with some high level class and then established it and refined it. You can see that in diagnosis both the bottom up process of classification, and the tope down process of classification are co-occurring. This method of bottom up classification and data space, mapping and hypothesis space, and then top down classification of hypothesis space is called heuristic classification. This is yet another method like rule-based reasoning, case-based reasoning, and model-based reasoning with a diagnostic task. 


06 - Problems with Diagnosis as Classification.txt
Several factors conspire to make multiple hypotheses. So I go to the doctor with high fever, explain multiple sets of data. So the hypotheses that one that have high fever and the other that I am tired. Now the doctor may come may a doctor decide if H is true? Well, one possibility is that the data space to the hypothesis space, the mapping is also from the hypothesis may be present at the same time. That is, one hypothesis may makes the diagnostic task harder. The fourth factor that makes one hypothesis present, another hypothesis cannot be true. In this case, H explains D, D, D. And H expands D of , D of , D of . But if H is present, H cannot be true. And if H is present, H cannot be true. This makes the diagnostic task hard test hard is called cancellation. Cancellation occurs when higher temperature. As a result, I may not show high fever, in our initial exercise. We chose Thetadesis as the most A we see in Iotalgia cancels out the reduced A we see in Kappacide, which the perspective of diagnostics solely as classification to a perspective 


07 - Deduction, Induction, Abduction.txt
Let us look at abduction more closely. To understand the similarities and differences between deduction, it rains, it's a rule. Another example of a rule, fever. So the rule might be; if flu then fever. Flue is the cause. Fever is the effect. Non-deduction, in one we can deduce that it rains. Similarly, of more despondence, and we discussed this in detail when time Joe arrives, Bob leaves. we can induce a rule an effect, we can abduce a cause. As an example, given the rule if and we see that Joe is here but not Bob, we might be able to adduce we are back to diagnosis. Diagnosis is an instance of abduction. But notice several of the properties. First, deduction is truth preserving. If the rule is true, between cause and effect for some sample, that does not mean that mean that a shark has flu. Fever can be caused by many many things. The reason that fever does not what makes diagnosis hard. We said that deduction, induction, and abduction, are three of it, we induce a rule. Having induced a rule, now we can use 


08 - Criteria for Choosing a Hypothesis.txt
Now that we understand abduction, and now that we know the diagnosis is an instance of abduction, let us ask ourselves, how does this understanding help us in choosing hypotheses? So the first principle for choosing a hypothesis is explanatory coverage. A hypotheses must cover as much of the data as possible. Here's an example, hypotheses H explain data items D through D. Hypothesis H explains data item D to D. Assuming that all of these data elements are equally important or equally salient, we may prefer H over H because it explains for of the data than does H. The second principle for choosing between competing hypotheses is called the principle of Parsimony. All things being equal, we want to pick the simplest explanation for the data. So consider the following scenario. H explains data elements D to D. H explains data elements D through D. H explains data elements D to D and H explains data elements D to D. Now if you went by the criteria of explanatory coverage, then we might pick H, plus H, plus H, because the three of them combined, explain more than just H. However, the criteria of Parsimony would suggest if you pick H, because H alone, explains almost all the data, and we don't need the other three hypothesis. In general this is a balancing act between these two principles. We want to both maximize the coverage, and maximize the parsimony. Based on this particular example, we may go with H and H. The two together explain all the data and in addition, the set of these two hypotheses is smaller than these set of hypotheses H, H, and H. The [UNKNOWN] criteria for choosing between competing hypotheses is that we want to pick those hypotheses in which we have more confidence. Some hypotheses are more likely than others. You may have more confidence in some hypotheses than in others. As an example, in this particular scenario, H may explain data items D to D and H may explain more data elements from D to D. So H also explains D that H doesn't. However, we may have more confidence in H, and so we may pick H instead of H. Once again this is a balancing act between these three criteria for choosing between competing diagnostic hypotheses. A quick point to note here, these three criteria are useful for choosing between competing hypotheses even if the task is not diagnosis. The same problem occurs for example in intelligence analysis. Imagine that you have some data that needs to be explained and your competing hypothesis for explaining that particular data, well, you may pick between the competing hypothesis based on this criteria. All of the task is not a diagnostic task. These three criteria are useful for explanation. Diagnosis simply happens to be an example of this [UNKNOWN] task. 


09 - Exercise Diagnosis as Abduction.txt
Let us do an exercise together. The data in this particular exercise, a little bit more complicated than in the previous one. On the right-hand side, I've shown a set of diseases. What disease or subset of these diseases best explains the available data? 


10 - Exercise Diagnosis as Abduction.txt
What answer did you give, David?`` which led to our High B, and both reduced C, which led to our Low C. Our patient had a normal level of E, two different explanations for the sake of coverage, coverage for parsimony. I could also augment Thetadesis more common than Betatosis and Zetad. In which case, I would have more currently matched the data best. That is to say, which hypotheses match, it explained three symptoms, it just didn't explain the fourth. Then, based on that, I went looking for another illness that would closer matches from my original round. I revisited Betatosis, which had two methods for the same problem. For example, one could use C was lower, F was low, and the solution was Thetadesis. In the current problem, Mutension to Thetadesis. Case-based reasoning does, will tend to forecast when we discuss meta reasoning. 


11 - Completing the Process.txt
Now we said earlier, the diagnosis is mapping from explaining the available data, then this hypotheses become the treatment space might consist of replacement of various parts or equal classes in these catergories So we index the actions over the equal of this treatment, we may need to collect additional data. The treatment fails. And the fact that the treatment function properly, then that is useful data to know. Because it suggests that the fault that configure a set of treatments or repairs that best address 


12 - Assignment Diagnosis.txt
So would the idea of diagnosis help us design an agent that can answer Raven's progressive matrices? Perhaps the best way to think about this is to consider how your agent might respond when it answers a question wrong. First, what data will it use to investigate its incorrect answer? Second, what hypotheses might it have for incorrect answers? Third, how will it select a hypothesis that best explains that data? And last, once it's selected hypothesis that explains that data, how will it use that to repair its reasoning, so it doesn't make the same mistake again? 


13 - Wrap Up.txt
So today, we talked about diagnosis which is a term we're very familiar with from our everyday lives. But today, we talked about it specifically in a knowledge-based AI sense. We started off by defining diagnosis, which is finding the fault responsible for the malfunction in some system. This can be computers, computer programs, cars or even people and animals. We then talked about the process of diagnosis, mapping data onto hypotheses and how we can see this as a form of classification. We discovered though that this can be a very complicated process and classification might not get us all the way there. So then we talked about diagnosis as a form of abduction. Given a rule and effect or a symptom, we can abduce the cause of that problem, like an illness or a software bug. Both configuration and diagnosis have been small tasks in the broader process of design. Now that we talk about them, we can talk about AI agents that can actually do design in the real world, as well as what it would mean for an AI agent to really be creative. 


14 - The Cognitive Connection.txt
Diagnosis is a very common cognitive task. It occurs whenever our expectations are violated. We start diagnosing. Why were our expectations violated? Within a system, we expect some behavior out of it. We get a different behavior. Why did the system not give the behavior we expected from it? Notice that diagnosis is a task. We can use several methods to address it, like case-based reasoning. We have discussed diagnosis on several contexts like medicine, program debugging, car repair, but it's also very common in other aspects of our life. For example, you get unexpected traffic. Why did it occur? We review interaction with a co-worker or the economy. All are examples of diagnosis 


15 - Final Quiz.txt
Please write down what you learned in this lesson. 


16 - Final Quiz.txt
Thank you very much. 


